for a TV the world is thinking you know
it's a philosophical thing almost which
is not only are we supposed to prolong
the end of life but we're supposed to
make life better and sometimes we do
better at the former prolonging the end
of life rather than making life better
throughout you know the end no I mean is
that and so give me some examples of
what you do to make that work I mean you
you touch on briefly a moment ago well
to make the feedback the spiritual
feelings the coping mechanisms yeah what
we do is we combine Western psychology
which is our thoughts because we believe
that so much comes from our thoughts so
if you become obsessed and you think oh
my gosh you am I going to live then
you're locked in fear and then somehow
physically it comes out which often
comes up to the doctor's office and
physical symptoms by the way when the
backs aching when really you're
terrified you're going to die so we work
on changing the thought process and we
combine that with Eastern philosophy of
working with the mind the body the
spirit through visualizations music
relaxation techniques so we've really
found that the combination of these two
and we have a very structured model with
interventions that we have been able to
match to your coping style so by using
these interventions that's how we have
gotten the evidence base in our research
that proves that it works and I mean
it's just amazing I especially an end of
life I have patients call me as they're
dying as they're dying and they were
terrified to die of course nobody like
to address it and then once we worked
with these interventions as they're
dying their last breath is it really
works I am at peace and I hope I didn't
mess up your research
but that's that's that's the importance
of our thoughts on this entire system so
fortunately I work electric electronic
data collection I with every patient
when they come in I'm able to record
their psychological symptoms and their
physical symptoms so the physician and
myself look at them from a whole person
perspective and can see how one is
working with the other and I think
that's the biggest disservice in
healthcare today is that we are not
looking at the patient from a whole
person perspective of how one impacts
the other but most likely from a medical
model